docs: Add document on how to report bugs (#95)
canonical/cloud-init: doc/rtd/topics/bugs.rst

**************

The following documents:

1) How to collect information for reporting bugs
2) How to file bugs to the upstream cloud-init project or for distro specific
   packages

Collect Logs
============

To aid in debugging, please collect the necessary logs. To do so, run the
`collect-logs` subcommand to produce a tarfile that you can easily upload:

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ cloud-init collect-logs
  Wrote /home/ubuntu/cloud-init.tar.gz

If your version of cloud-init does not have the  `collect-logs` subcommand,
then please manually collect the base log files by doing the following:

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ dmesg > dmesg.txt
  $ sudo journalctl -o short-precise > journal.txt
  $ sudo tar -cvf cloud-init.tar dmesg.txt journal.txt /run/cloud-init \
      /var/log/cloud-init.log /var/log/cloud-init-output.log

Report Upstream Bug
===================

Bugs for upstream cloud-init are tracked using Launchpad. To file a bug:

1. Collect the necessary debug logs as described above
2. `Create a Launchpad account`_ or login to your existing account
3. `Report an upstream cloud-init bug`_

If debug logs are not provided, you will be asked for them before any

> further time is spent debugging.

Reviewer: Should we add a proviso that if people can't collect these then they should mention that? I don't think we want people to not file bugs because things have ended up so broken that they can't get the logs, but maybe we should expect people to work that out themselves.

Author: I am ok with adding a comment about not being able to get them that they should mention it. Let me do that real quick.

Author: Added

.. _reporting_bugs:

Reporting Bugs
**************

> 

Reviewer: I think an introductory sentence or two here would make this a little easier for newer folks to digest. If we immediately launch into `collect-logs` stuff, people may bounce off, whereas with a little context they'll understand why we want them to collect those logs.

Author: Agreed I added an quick intro as to what this document will address

Logs
====

To aid in debugging collecting the necessary logs, first run the
`collect-logs` subcommand to produce a tarfile that you can easily upload

> to aid in intial debugging of your issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to aid in initial debugging of your issue:
```

Reviewer: This is a typo, but we also use "aid in [initial] debugging" twice in this sentence, which isn't likely to... aid in the reader's understanding. :grin:

Author: Cleaned up the entire paragraph to avoid duplication

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ cloud-init collect-logs
  Wrote /home/ubuntu/cloud-init.tar.gz

If your cloud-init does not have the  `collect-logs` subcommand, then please
manually collect the base log files by doing the following:

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ dmesg > dmesg.txt
  $ sudo journalctl -o short-precise > journal.txt
  $ sudo tar -cvf cloud-init.tar dmesg.txt journal.txt /run/cloud-init \
      /var/log/cloud-init.log /var/log/cloud-init-output.log

Reporting
=========

Bugs for upstream cloud-init are tracked using Launchpad. To file a bug,
`create a Launchpad account`_, login, and then

> `report an upstream cloud-init bug`_.

Reviewer: Should we mention somewhere in here that the first thing we'll do for a bug report without debugging information is ask for the debugging information? I don't know if it's clear that we consider that a (near) necessity for looking at a bug.

Author: Yes, added we need logs or we will ask and not spend any further time on it.

If your bug is for a specific distro using cloud-init, please first consider
reporting it with the upstream distro or confirm that it still occurs
with the latest upstream cloud-init code. See below for details on specific
distro reporting.

Distro Specific Issues
======================

For issues specific to your distro please use one of the following distro
specific reporting mechanisms:

Ubuntu
------

> To report a bug on Ubuntu use the `ubuntu-bug` command to automatically

Reviewer: Should we make it clear that people should run it on an affected system (if possible)?

Author: Yes, done

collect the necessary logs and file a bug on Launchpad:

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ ubuntu-bug cloud-init

If that does not work or is not an option, please collect the logs using the
commands above and then report the bug on the `Ubuntu bug tracker`_. Make sure
to attach your collected logs!

Debian
------

To file a bug against the Debian package fo cloud-init please use the
`Debian bug tracker`_ to file against 'Package: cloud-init'. See the
`Debian bug reporting wiki`_ wiki page for more details.

Red Hat, CentOS, & Fedora
-------------------------

To file a bug against the Red Hat or Fedora packages of cloud-init please use
the `Red Hat bugzilla`_.

SUSE & openSUSE
---------------

To file a bug against the SuSE packages of cloud-init please use the
`SUSE bugzilla`_.

Arch
----

To file a bug against the Arch package of cloud-init please use the

> `Arch bugs`_. See the `Arch bug reporting wiki`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Arch Linux Bugtracker`_. See the `Arch bug reporting wiki`_ for more details.
```

This is what the linked page is titled, and how the linked wiki page refers to it also.

(You probably can't/shouldn't just accept this suggestion because of line length.)

Author: Fixed
